In this lecture we want to learn how we can figure out whether we're working with a round device or
a square device and you know we already sort of have some concept of that where you know we have the
string files that we're going to use these particular strings for around going to use these particular
ones for square and you know that'll probably work in a lot of cases but you know what if programmatically
we wanted to know about that because we were going to do something different with the layout.
Well we can do that very simply through Android studio here and I want to show you something cool that's
new.
And that's if we go to our activity main x M-L Let's go to the text size.
This is all contained in something called a box inset layout.
And this is a fairly new thing in the Android Ware world.
There's this awesome blog post about it.
You can find it by just googling Android Wear box inset lay out.
But basically this replaces an old way of working that basically says whether you're working with a
square you know lay out or you're working with the round one we're going to just make sure everything
fits in a particular box and so that really helps the situation when we're trying to figure things out.
So I really recommend going and giving this a read you can find some awesome information here.
But get back to the present task.
We want to know via code if we are working with a square or a round layout so we can do that fairly
simply by getting our just type you know get resources that get configuration and then it has this awesome
method called is screen round that just gives us a boolean true or false whether this thing is round.
So we could just do a very simple if statement like this where we just say you know if this thing gives
us back you know this then we can go ahead and log out some information so we can say log I will just
say device and in this case we would say round.
But you know if it's the situation then we were No.
We know that we were working in the square world so we can go ahead and change this to square.
And with that in place let's go ahead and try it on both devices.
So let's try this first with the round.
So this should log out round.
When we do that Lucky for me I've got both of them here so that we don't have to wait super long in
between each of the apps to get them to launch up and rock n roll.
Even then though Android studio likes to try my patience so come on you can do it.
There we go and we'll get Lague cat up and run and heres cause we should be seeing a message come there.
Now it's important to note that when you're looking through log cat here that you have the appropriate
watch set up here because we ran this on round but we have square showing up here so we want to make
sure we change that around so we can find the round information.
But with that in place let's go ahead and see if we had our message here.
And look at that device round.
So we know that it worked for the round side of things.
Let's go ahead and stop this and then hit play and now we'll say we want to see what things look like
in the square side of the Android world.
So we'll go ahead and do that.
Make sure you change log cat to show the square information.
And here comes or app up and running app opens up.
Hello squirt world.
And that device Square.
So now I'm going to turn things over to you with a challenge.
I want you to make a brand new Android studio project that is creating an android Ware app and I want
you to say have a button in the middle of the screen that the user can press that will then display
a text message that says whether they are on a round or a square device.
OK.
So new Android Studio Project button on the screen when they tap that it will show a message that says
either round or square.
Go ahead and do that now.
All right so hopefully that went well for you.
Again we need to make a new Android studio project.
So I'm just going to say start a new project I'm going to call this one round or square and we'll go
ahead and say Next there I'm going to keep this one at API.
Well let's do 26 we'll do the latest and greatest on this one just for fun open.
I almost forgot that's not the phone that I'm trying to do.
It's Android Wear that I'm trying to do.
So let's do latest and greatest and see what that's like there.
We want a blank where activity so we'll go ahead and select that and we'll hit finish and we'll give
this a second to finish up here.
So again main goal that we're looking for is we just want to have a button in the middle of the screen
or taps on that.
It's going to display a message.
So let's go ahead and move first to this main activity where we're going to do some logic so we're you
know going to have to have some sort of method when the user taps something so we'll say public void.
Button clicked maybe as well we'll call it.
Maybe we'll do something better we'll say determined round or square
there we go.
This is going to take in a capital view just like that and forgot to do the auto complete here.
See you there we go.
So remember the way to check whether it is round or square we're going to say get the resources resources.
There we go get configuration that is screen round.
So we'll just do a simple IF statement here with this and we'll say you know if the screen is round
we want to display a text message saying that it is round.
So we're going to say capital TOSed make text go ahead and pass this and then we're going to say a round
exclamation point at least I think that's what I think we should say and say toast that length short
and then we'll go ahead and show the toast.
Now with that in place we also need an else statement that basically does the opposite of this.
So go ahead and copy and then this time we'll say where.
Exclamation point.
So with this in place we just need to have a button that's going to call this method right here so we'll
go ahead and copy this come to the visual side of things so we don't need this text view so we're going
to go ahead and delete that.
But then we're going to go grab a button and bring that right inside of the app.
So with this you can kind of determine how it is that you want this button to show up you'll notice
we don't get the same sort of functionality about saying you know we want this to you know be a certain
space from here you don't get the constraint lay out that you had before.
In this case it's using a frame play out here.
So I mean you can change that.
I believe if you'd like to but you know it's probably best to just stay with the frame here.
But what you can do is you can say you know for the lay out with I want you to go ahead and match the
same as the parent and then for the height you know you can go ahead and just say wrap content there.
So that'll probably be fine for us let's go and double click and change the name to say something like.
Which device.
So then it will you know say oh if you you know click on this it'll tell you which device is going on.
And the big one is we need to set the on click method and paste indetermined round or square and that
should be it as far as getting this app to rock and roll.
So let's go ahead and run this let's go first on let's maybe do the round one and we'll confirm that
this is showing up so because we don't need to use log cat we won't have to worry about that but let's
get both of our emulators up here.
So again hit the button.
We should see the toe showing up and I don't know if you're like me but the very first time I did a
toast on Android where I just thought it was hilarious.
It's like oh my gosh this little tiny screen this little toast message it's the cutest thing in the
world.
I don't know if you're into cute apps but I just thought it was hilarious when it happened so I think
you'll be interested to see that one show up.
All right finally showed up.
Here's that button.
And let's go ahead and tap it.
Boum look at that.
It says round.
Isn't that a cool little text message.
I think that's a great.
I'm just going to keep hitting that over and over again.
So awesome.
Now just to make sure we got that we'll stop and this time we will choose the square emulator to work
with.
So look at that this app popped up and we can say which device hit that and boom it tells us it's square.
And so that's pretty awesome that we can have an app that tell us whether it's square or round.
Hopefully you completely understand that functionality now and you had that experience of setting up
the Android Ware app on your own.
Hopefully you're starting to feel more familiar with this whole concept.